>> Woodruff: A WHITE HOUSE
SPOKESMAN SAID TODAY THE U.S.
ECONOMY IS ON A STRONGER PATH AS
SIGNS OF RECOVERY CONTINUE TO
PAINT A BETTER FISCAL PICTURE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, HOME
SAS ARLEE UP-- THE FASTEST GAINS
IN SEVEN YEARS.
WE EXAMINE WHAT THAT MEANS FOR
THE BROADER ECONOMY.
>> Woodruff: THEN, JEFFREY BROWN
REPORTS ON THE FIRST SUSPECTED
U.S. DRONE STRIKE SINCE
PRESIDENT OBAMA LAID OUT NEW
GUIDELINES FOR SUCH ATTACKS,
THIS ONE KILLING A TOP LEADER OF
THE PAKISTANI TALIBAN.
>> Ifill: A NEW SURVEY FINDS
MOTHERS WITH CHILDREN AT HOME
ARE NOW THE TOP BREADWINNERS IN
FOUR OUT OF TEN AMERICAN
FAMILIES.
WE LOOK AT WHAT'S DRIVING THE
TREND.
>> Woodruff: MILEO'BRS IEN HAS
THE STORY OF ADVANCES IN FACIAL
RECOGNITION SOFTWARE.
TURNING THE GRAINIEST OF PHOTOS
INTO INFORMATION HELPING POLICE
REEL IN TERROR SUSPECTS.
>> WE'RE STILL BLOWN AWAY ON HOW
IT WORKS.
THIS ACTUALLY FIT THE BOSTON
SUSPECT.
SO THAT WAS HUGE.
>> Ifill: WE CONTINUE OUR SERIES
OF CONVERSATIONS ON IMMIGRATION
REFORM.
TONIGHT, RAY SUAREZ TALKS WITH
TWO LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS
ABOUT THE CHALLENGES OF SECURING
THE U.S.-MEXICO BORDER.
>> Woodruff: AND WE CLOSE WITH
MUSIC LEGEND DOLLY PARTON AND
HER LITERACY PROGRAM THAT'S
DELIVERED NEARLY 50 MILLION FREE
BOOKS TO KIDS' HOMES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
>> WE SD THENESE BOOKS TO THEM
IN THEIR LITTLE NAME, WITH THEIR
NAME ON IT.
THIS IS THEIRS.
THIS IS MINE.
SO I AM GOING TO EITHER LEARN TO
READ IT, OR I'M GOING TO MAKE
SOMEBODY TEACH ME HOW TO READ
IT.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: THE U.S. ECONOMY IS
SHOWING UNEXPECTED SIGNS OF
STRENGTH THIS SPRING AND
PROMPTING NEW OPTIMISM.
THE MOST SIGNIFICANT
DEVELOENT:PM THE ACCELERATING
RECOVERY IN MANY REGIONS OF THE
HOUSING MARKET.
HOME PRICES IN 20 CITIES ROSE BY
AN AVERAGE OF NEARLY 11% IN
MARCH COMPARED TO A YEAR AGO.
THE CASE-SHILLER INDEX ALSO
REPORTED YESTERDAY THAT IN SOME
MARKETS, SUCH AS PHOENIX,
SAN FRANCISCO AND LAS VEGAS,
PRICES CLIMBED BY MORE THAN 20%.
AT THE SAME TIME, A SEPARATE
INDEX OF CONSUMER CONFIDENCE
TAKEN IN MAY IS AT ITS HIGHEST
SINCE 2008.
ALL OF THIS COMES AS THE STOCK
MARKET CONTINUES A STRONG RUN.
DURING THE FIRST FIVE MONTHS OF
THE YEAR, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE HAS CLIMBED
NEARLY 2,000 POINTS.
ALTHOUGH IT CLOSED AT 15,302
TODAY, DOWN 106 POINTS.
WE LOOK AT THE UPS AND DOWNS OF
THE STUTTERING RECOVERY WITH
CATHERINE RAMPELL OF THE "NEW
YORK TIMES."
WELCOME, CATHERINE.
WHAT ARE WE TOIK MAKE OF THIS
HOUSING REPOUND?
>> WELL, THE HOUSING REBOUND HAS
BEEN PRETTY STRONG, GOING FOR
ALMOST A YEAR NOW, I WOULD SAY.
IT'S VERY WIDESPREAD.
ALL 20 CITIES THAT CASE-SHILLER
TRACK SHOWED GAINS, BOTH IN THE
LAST MONTH REPORTED, WHICH WAS
MARCH, AND THE PREVIOUS COUPLE
OF MONTHS.
IT'S WIDESPREAD AND APPEARS TO
BE HERE TO STAY.
>> Ifill: DOES IT SHIFT FROM
REGION TO REGION?
>> YES, THERE ARE DINKS.
YOU MENTIONED THAT PHOENIX, FOR
EXAMPLE, AND LAS VEGAS
H20-PLUS-PERCENT GROWTH.
THAT IS PARTLY BECAUSE, AS WE
SHOULD REMEMBER, THOSE AREAS HAD
MAJOR PLUNGES IN HOUSING PRICES
SO IT'S COMING OFF OF A VERY LOW
BASE.
BIG GROWTH-- EXACTLY, THERE'S
BIG GROWTH BUT IT'S NOTE EXACTLY
AS IF THE PRICES THERE ARE
ANYWHERE NEAR THEIR PEAK WHICH
PROBABLY WE DON'T WANT GIVEN
UNSUSTAINABLE BUBBLE VALUES THAT
WE HAD IN THE EARTH 20 00s,
AND MID-2000, BUT EVEN NOW THEY
MIGHT BE UNDERVALUED BECAUSE
THEY FELL SO FAR DURING THE
BUST.
>> Ifill: IF YOU LOOK AT THE
OVERALL PICTURE HOW BIG ARE
THESE HOUSING STATS IN WHAT
LOOKS LIKE AT LEAST A PARTIAL
RECOVERY?
>> IT'S A BIG CONTRIBUTE ORP
RIGHT NOW.
WE'VE HAD MAJOR CUT IN
GOVERNMENT SPENDING.
WE'VE HAD TAX INCREASES EARLIER
THIS YEAR.
AS A RESULT, THERE WERE A LOT OF
ECONOMISTS WHO HAD PREDICTED
THAT CONSUMER SPENDING IN
PARTICULAR WAS GOING TO KIND OF
FALL OFF A CLIFF COME JANUARY
AND THAT HASN'T HAPPENED.
AND WHILE IT SURPRISED A LOT OF
PEOPLE, WHAT THEY'RE BASICALLY
POINTING TO IS THE FACT THAT
PEOPLE ARE FEELING WEALTHIER.
THEIR HOME VALUES ARE GOING UP.
THE STOCK MARKET IS ALSO GOING
UP, OF COURSE.
AND THAT HELPS A SMALLER SEGMENT
OF AMERICANS.
BUT, REALLY, THERE ARE SO MANY
HOMEOWNERS OUT THERE WHO ARE
FEELING A SENSE OF RELIEF AND
FEELING A BIT RICHER THAT
THEY'RE A LITTLE BIT MORE APT TO
LOOSEN THE PURSE STRINGS A
LITTLE BIT.
>> Ifill: THAT DRIVES CONSUMER
CONFIDENCE.
THAT DRIVERS THE STOCK
INVESTMENTS.
>> EXACTLY.
>> Ifill: THERE SOUND LIKE
THERE'S A "YES, BUT," IN ALL OF
THIS.
>> THE YES, "BUT IS EVEN THOUGH
CONSUMER CONFIDENCE IS UP AND
CONSUMER SPENDING IS MORE
RESILIENT IT'S NOT PARTICULARLY
HEALTHY.
CONSUMER CONFIDENCE NUMBERS AS
REPORTED YESTERDAY WAS AT THE
HIGHEST LEVEL FOR FIVE YEARS BUT
THEY'RE STILL AT RECESSIONARY
LEVELS.
REMEMBER, WE WERE IN A RECESSION
FIVE YEARS AGO.
EVEN THOUGH WE ARE IMPROVING.
EVEN THOUGH WE ARE IN WHAT IS
TECHNICAL A RECOVERY, WE FELL SO
FAR AND WE DUG OURSELVES INTO
SUCH A DEEP HOLE, THAT
INCREMENTAL IMPROVEMENTS THAT
WE'VE HAD ARE STILL NOT REALLY
SUBSTANTIAL ENOUGH TO MAKE US
FEEL LIKE WE'RE LIVING IN A
HEALTHY ECONOMY, ESPECIALLY IF
YOU LOOK AT THE JOB MARKET.
>> Ifill: THAT'S WHAT I WAS
GOING TO TALK TO YOU ABOUT.
LET'S LOOK AT THE JOB MARKETS,
ESPECIALLY WHO IS GETTING JOBS
BACK AND WHO IS NOT?
>> WELL, GOVERNMENTS ARE STILL
LAYING OFF WORKERS SO THERE ARE
PEOPLE LOSING THEIR JOBS.
WE HAVE SEEN STRONG GAINS IN A
LOT OF THE LOWER WAGE SECTORS,
UNFORTUNATELY-- I MEAN,
FORTUNATE THAT PEOPLE ARE
GETTING JOBS BUT PRESUMABLY THEY
WOULD LIKE HIGHER WAIDGES.
I'M TALKING ABOUT FOOD SERVICES,
RETAIL.
WE ACTUALLY HAVE THE HIGHEST
SHARE OF JOBS RIGHT NOW THAT ARE
IN THE FOOD SERVICES SECTOR THAN
HAS EVER BEEN THE CASE ON
RECORD.
SO THERE HAVE BEEN GAINS BUT
THEY HAVE NOT BEEN REALLY
SUBSTANTIAL ENOUGH TO WHITTLE
DOWNTOWN BACKLOG OF SOMETHING
LIKE 11 MILLION OR 12 MILLION
UNEMPLOYED PEOPLE WE STILL HAVE
RIGHT NOW.
AND, AGAIN, WHERE WE ARE
CREATING JOBS THEY'RE OFTEN AT
LOWER WAGES THAN THE JOBS PEOPLE
HAD LOST.
>> WE WERE TWOALD THERE WERE TWO
FACTORS THAT WOULD DRIVE THE
ECONOMY THIS YEAR.
ONE WAS THE SEQUESTER HERE IN
WASHINGTON WHERE THEY WERE GOING
TO CAP GOVERNMENT SPENDING AND
THE OTHER WAS THE EURO ZONE
CRISE, WHICH WAS ALSO SUPPOSED
TO HAVE IT A RESIDUAL EFFECT
HERE.
HAS EITHER DONE THAT?
>> IT'S STILL TOO EARLY TO SAY
WHAT'S GOING ON WITH THE
RESCEFTER.
THE SEQUESTER OFFICIALLY STARTED
MARCH 1 BUT THE WAY IT IS
DESIGNED IT MEANS GUEST AGENCY
BASICALLY HAVE TO CUT SOME OF
THEIR SPENDING BY THE END OF THE
FISCAL YEAR.
THEY HAVE TO DO IS IMMEDIATELY.
THERE WERE A LOT OF GOVERNMENT
AGENCIES THAT WAITED A BIT
BECAUSE THEY THOUGHT MAYBE
CONGRESS WOULD CHANGE ITS MIND
AND REVERSE THIS MAJOR CUT TO
FEDERAL SPENDING, SINCE, AFTER
ALL, THE WHOLE THING WAS
DESIGNED BASICALLY TO GET
CONGRESS TO COME TO A DEAL THAT
WOULD NOT NOT FORCE THESE MAJOR
ACROSS-THE-BOARD SPENDING CUTS.
THERE WERE A LOT OF AGENCIES
THAT DECIDED TO WAIT AND THEY
DIDN'T CUT RIGHT AWAY.
THERE WERE ALSO AGENCIES THAT
SAID, WELL, SINCE WE HAVE SOME
FLEXIBILITY ABOUT WHEN THESE
CUTS GO INTO EFFECT, MAYBE
WE'LLALATE LATE-UNTIL LATER
GLAIFL IN THE EURO ZONE?
>> IN THE EURO ZONE.
THE YOUR OWN ZO IS STILL VERY
MUCH A CONCERN.
IT'S NOT AS MUCH ON THE FRONT
BURNER AS IT HAD BEEN WHEN
POLICE LOOKED ON THE VERGE OF
COLLAPSE.
THINGS ARE STILL NOT HEALTHY.
THERE ARE COUNTRIES IN EUROPE
THAT ARE IN RECESSION RIGHT NOW.
BUT THE MAIN SOURCE OF CONCERN
FROM THE EURO ZONE HAD BEEN
ANOTHER FINANCIAL CRISE.
IF GREECE WENT UNDER MAYBE ITALY
WOULD AND ALL OF THE BANKS ARE
TENTACLES IN THESE PLACES WOULD
HAVE NAIRNLG SHOCKS AS WELL.
TO SOME EXTENT, A LOT OF THE
U.S. BANKS HAVE INSULATED
THEMSELVES AGAINST THIS BECAUSE
THE CRISE HAS GONE GOING ON SO
LONG SO THERE'S A LITTLE LESS
CONCERN THERE.
SORRY.
>> Ifill: I WAS GOING TO SAY
THE--
>> Ifill: GO AHEAD.
>> OTHER RISK FROM THE EURO ZONE
HAS TO DO WITH TRADE, THAT WHY
YOU WERE SAY MAJOR-- EUROPE IS A
MAJOR TRADING PART THEIR BUT IT
IS A SMALL SHARE THAT WILL BE
AFFECTED THERE.
EVEN THOUGH IT'S NOT HELPING,
IT'S NOT A HUGE DRAG, AT LEAST
RELATIVE TIE COUPLE YEARS AGO.
>> Ifill: SO WE'RE STILL
WAITING FOR OTHER SHOES TO DROP.
CATHERINE RAMPELL FROM THE "NEW
YORK TIMES," THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE "NEWSHOUR": THE DRONE STRIKE
THAT KILLED A TOP TALIBAN LEADER
IN PAKISTAN; MOTHERS BRINGING
HOME THE BACON; SOFTWARE TO PICK
OUT CRIMINAL FACES IN A CROWD;
AN IMMIGRATION DEBATE ON
SECURING THE BORDER AND DOLLY
PARTON'S BIG PUSH TO GIVE KIDS
BOOKS.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: THE EUROPEAN
UNION SOFTENED AUSTERITY DEMANDS
FOR SIX COUNTRIES TODAY, IN A
BID TO SPARK ECONOMIC GROWTH.
FRANCE, SPAIN AND FOUR OTHER
STATES WILL BE GIVEN MORE TIME
TO GET THEIR DEFICITS UNDER
CONTROL.
THAT CAME AS THE ORGANIZATION
FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND
DEVELOPMENT WARNED THAT
RECESSION IN EUROPE IS
THREATENING THE GLOBAL RECOVERY.
THE GROUP PREDICTED THE EURO-
ZONE'S ECONOMY WILL SHRINK MORE
THAN HALF A PERCENT THIS YEAR.
SYRIAN PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD
SERVED NOTICE TODAY THAT HE WILL
SERVE AT LEAST THROUGH ELECTIONS
NEXT YEAR AND MIGHT EVEN RUN
AGAIN.
THE SYRIAN FOREIGN MINISTER MADE
THE ANNOUNCEMENT.
HE SAID THE REGIME HAS NEW
MOMENTUM FROM BATTLEFIELD
VICTORIES AGAINST THE REBELS.
THE STATEMENT COULD COMPLICATE
U.S. AND RUSSIAN EFFORTS TO
CONVENE A PEACE CONFERENCE.
WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN JAY CARNEY
SAID TODAY THAT ASSAD CANNOT
CLING TO POWER.
>> BASHAR AL-ASSAD LONG AGO GAVE
UP THE OPPORTUNITY TO
PARTICIPATE IN A TRANSITION
PROCESS THAT WOULD IMPROVE THE
FUTURE OF THE SYRIAN PEOPLE AND
THE SYRIAN NATION.
HE CHOSE INSTEAD TO WAGE WAR ON
HIS PEOPLE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE SYRIAN
OPPOSITION SAID TODAY IT MIGHT
TAKE PART IN PEACE TALKS, BUT
ONLY IF THERE'S A DEADLINE FOR A
SETTLEMENT FORCING ASSAD OUT.
THE CARNAGE IN IRAQ HAS CLAIMED
AT LEAST 30 MORE LIVES.
BOMBINGS HIT TWO NEIGHBORHOODS
IN BAGHDAD AFTER NIGHTFALL.
MOST OF THE VICTIMS WERE MEMBERS
OF A WEDDING PARTY, PASSING BY
AS THE BOMB EXPLODED.
SECTARIAN VIOLENCE HAS FLARED IN
IRAQ THIS MONTH, KILLING MORE
THAN 500 PEOPLE.
CHINA ISSUED A NEW CONDEMNATION
OF COMPUTER HACKING TODAY, AMID
ALLEGATIONS THAT CHINESE HACKERS
STOLE DATA ON MORE THAN TWO
DOZEN MAJOR U.S. WEAPONS
SYSTEMS.
IN BEIJING, THE ASSISTANT
FOREIGN MINISTER DID NOT
DIRECTLY ADDRESS THE
ALLEGATIONS, MADE IN A PENTAGON
REPORT.
INSTEAD, HE SAID CHINA OPPOSES
ALL CYBER-ATTACKS AND HAS
PROMISED TO WORK WITH THE U.S.
TO FIGHT THEM.
THE FIRST SAME-SEX WEDDING WAS
PERFORMED IN FRANCE TODAY, UNDER
A NEW NATIONAL LAW MAKING IT
LEGAL.
WE HAVE A REPORT NARRATED BY
CORDELIA LYNCH OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS."
>> Reporter: THEY SAY IT'S A
VICTORY OF LOVE OVER HATE.
A KISS THAT CHANGES FRANCE
FOREVER.
VINCENT AUTIN AND BRUNO BOILEAU-
THE FIRST SAME-SEX COLE TUPO
MARRY THERE.
IT IS THE EMOTION YOU EXPECT TO
SEE.
BUT THIS WAS A WEDDING PACKED
WITH STRANGERS.
>> (translated): NOTHING IS
MORE BEAUTIFUL THAN LOVE.
WE HAVE TO LOVE IN OUR SOCIETY.
IT'S HARD ENOUGH AS IT IS.
SO I BEG YOU, LOVE YOURSELVES,
LOVE US, LET'S LOVE EACH OTHER.
BECAUSE IT'S IMPORTANT.
>> Reporter: BUT BEFORE THEY
WED, THEY FACED THE VOICES OF
THOSE WHO DISAGREE.
THEIR UNION IN MONTPELLIER HAS
SPLIT THEIR COUNTRY.
AND THESE IMAGES MAY NOT MARK
THE END OF MONTHS OF
DEMONSTRATIONS AND POLITICAL
ROWS.
UNLIKE THE U.K., THE DEBATE IS
EXPLOSIVE AND STILL RAGING.
THE LAW WAS PASSED LESS THAN TWO
WEEKS AGO, BUT THESE WERE SCENES
AT THE WEEKEND.
THE LARGEST PROTEST AGAINST GAY
MARRIAGE DREW NEARLY HALF A
MILLION PEOPLE.
BUT IT ISN'T JUST ELDERLY
CONSERVATIVES GALVANIZING THE
RIGHT.
THE YOUNG ARE STILL PLAYING
THEIR PART.
MANY CATHOLICS, OPPOSED TO GAY
ADOPTION.
>> (translated): WE FEAR THAT
CHILDREN ARE GOING TO BE CLEARLY
DAMAGED BY THIS, BY BEING
FABRICATED THROUGH DONATION AND
>> Reporter: IN THE LAND OF
LIBERTE, EGALITE AND FRATERITE
ONLY A SLIGHT MAJORITY SUPPORTED
THE BILL.
BUT THIS WAS AND STILL IS ABOUT
MORE THAN SEXUALITY OR AN
INSTITUTION.
IT'S POLITICAL AND PERSONAL-
MANY BELIEVE THE PRESIDENT
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE OBSESSED OVER
THE BILL RATHER THAN DEALING
WITH THE TROUBLED ECONOMY.
HIS POPULARITY IS PLUMMETING-
AND GAY MARRIAGE HAS MOBILIZED
RIGHT WING VOTERS.
>> Sreenivasan: IN A RELATED
DEVELOPMENT, THE FRENCH INTERIOR
MINISTER CALLED FOR TOUGHER
PENALTIES AGAINST ANTI-GAY
SPEECH AND ACTIONS.
SWITZERLAND MOVED TODAY TO END A
LENGTHY FIGHT BETWEEN SWISS
BANKS AND U.S. INVESTIGATORS,
OVER TAX EVASION.
THE BERN GOVERNMENT SAID IT WILL
LET BANKS SIDESTEP THEIR FAMED
SECRECY, AND DISCLOSE
INFORMATION ON AMERICAN CLIENTS.
THE DEAL NEEDS APPROVAL OF THE
SWISS PARLIAMENT.
THE GOAL IS TO AVERT U.S.
CRIMINAL CHARGES AGAINST THE
BANKS FOR AIDING TAX CHEATS.
THEY COULD STILL FACE HEAVY
FINES.
FORMER REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CONTENDER MICHELE BACHMANN IS
CALLING IT A CAREER IN THE
U.S. HOUSE.
THE MINNESOTA CONGRESSWOMAN
ANNOUNCED TODAY SHE WILL NOT
SEEK RE-ELECTION.
BACHMANN NARROWLY WON A FOURTH
TERM LAST YEAR.
SHE SAID TODAY SHE WAS NOT
WORRIED ABOUT ANOTHER TOUGH RE-
ELECTION FIGHT.
SHE ALSO DISMISSED CONCERNS
ABOUT AN INVESTIGATION OF HOW
SHE FINANCED HER UNSUCCESSFUL
CAMPAIGN FOR PRESIDENT LAST
YEAR.
THIS WAS THE DAY-- 60 YEARS AGO-
-  THAT EDMUND HILLARY AND
TENZING NORGAY BECAME THE FIRST
TO CLIMB MOUNT EVEREST, THE
WORLD'S HIGHEST MOUNTAIN.
SINCE THEN, MORE THAN 3,000
PEOPLE HAVE SCALED THE PEAK IN
NEPAL, AT 29,000 FEET ABOVE SEA
LEVEL.
TODAY, THE CITY OF KATMANDU, THE
NEPALESE CAPITAL, STAGED A
COLORFUL PARADE TO MARK THE
OCCASION.
STATUES OF THE TWO CLIMBERS WERE
ADORNED WITH FLOWER GARLANDS,
AND FAMILY MEMBERS RODE IN THE
PARADE.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO GWEN.
>> Ifill: U.S. FORCES KILLED THE
NUMBER TWO COMMANDER OF THE
PAKISTANI TALIBAN TODAY WITH A
MISSILE FIRED FROM A DRONE.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> WE'LL HAVE THAT STORY COMING
IN JUST A MOMENT.
>> Woodruff: OUR APOLOGIES
ABOUT THAT PECKICAL PROBLEM.
WE'LL BRING YOU THAT STORY ABOUT
THE TALIBAN IN A MOMENT.
THERE ARE NEW FIND THAT IS SHOW
MOMS MORE THAN EVER ARE BECOMING
THE BREADWINNERS OF THE AMERICAN
FAMILY.
A RECORD 40% OF ALL FAMILIES
WITH CHILDREN UNDER THE AGE OF
18 ARE NOW HEADED BY WOMEN WHO
ARE THE SOLE OR PRIMARY SOURCE
OF INCOME.
THAT ANALYSIS, BASED ON CENSUS
DATA, WAS RELEASED TODAY BY THE
PEW RESEARCH CENTER.
NOTABLY, THERE ARE BIG INCOME
DISPARITIES AMONG THESE WOMEN.
ALMOST 25% OF FAMILIES ARE LED
BY SINGLE MOTHERS WHO EARN A
MEDIAN OF $23,000 A YEAR.
ANOTHER 15% OF FAMILIES ARE
COMPRISED OF MARRIED MOTHERS WHO
EARN MORE THAN THEIR HUSBANDS.
THEIR FAMILIES' MEDIAN INCOME
WAS ALMOST $80,000 A YEAR.
FOR MORE ON THESE TRENDS AND
WHAT THEY SUGGEST ABOUT THE
CHANGING DYNAMICS OF WORK AND
FAMILY LIFE, WE TURN TO PAUL
TAYLOR, AN AUTHOR OF THE REPORT
AND EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT OF
THE PEW CENTER.
AND ELLEN GALINSKY, WHO IS THE
PRESIDENT AND CO-FOUNDER OF THE
FAMILIES AND WORK INSTITUTE.
FOR THE RECORD, I'M A MEMBER OF
ITS BOARD.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
AND FOR THE RECORD I'M A MEMBER
OF THE INSTITUTE'S BOARD.
I WANT TO SAY TO PAUL TAYLOR
FIRST, THIS IS A DRAMATIC
CHANGE.
I MEAN, FROM 50 YEARS AGO, WOMEN
WERE, WHAT .
>> ABOUT 10%.
>> Woodruff: 10% OF FAMILIES.
10% OF THEM WERE WOMEN WHO WERE
THE PRINCIPAL OR SINGLE
BREADWINNER.
TODAY IT'S 40%.
>> AND THIS REALLY CAPTURES
THE-- A HALF CENTURY CHANGE.
THE MOVEMENT OF WOMEN INTO THE
WORKFORCE, ALL OF THE CHALLENGES
THAT PRESENTS, THE WOMEN AND TO
MEN AND TO THEIR CHILDREN IN
TERMS OF WORK-FAMILY BALANCE.
AS YOU SAID IN YOUR SETUP PIECE,
DEMOGRAPHICALLY IT'S TWO VERY
DIFFERENT GROUPS OF WOMEN, THE
SINGLE MOTHERS WHO TEND TO BE AT
THE LOWER END OF THE
SOCIOECONOMIC SCALES, AND THE
WIVES WHO OUT-EARN THEIR
HUSBANDS AND BOTH OF THESE
GROUPS HAVE BEEN GROWING.
WHAT CONNECTS THEM BOTH IS WORK
IS INCREASINGLY AN ECONOMIC
NECESSITY.
OF COURSE IT'S A CHOICE THAT
WOMEN MAKE AND MEN MAKE AS WELL.
BUT THE MAJORITY OF HOUSEHOLDS
WITH CHILDREN NOW HAVE A MOTHER
WHO WORKS.
THAT CHANGE-- THE PUBLIC ACCEPTS
THAT CHANGE, APPROVES OF THAT
CHANGE-- IN ADDITION TO SHOWING
THE CENSUS DATA, WE DID OUR OWN
SURVEY ABOUT ATTITUDES TOWARDS,
THIS AND WE FIND A PUBLIC AT ONE
LEVEL VERY ACCEPTING OF IT AND
APPROVING OF IT.
EVERYBODY GETS THE FACT IN
TODAY'S ECONOMY YOU NEED TWO
INTOOKS CERTAINLY, IF YOU'RE A
SINGLE MOTHER YOU NEED AN INCOME
TO RAISE CHILDREN.
BUT THERE ARE RESERVATIONS AND
CONCERNS ABOUT WHETHER THIS IS
BEST FOR CHILDREN AND EVEN SOME
BEST FOR THE MARRIAGE.
CONCERNS ABOUT WHETHER THIS IS
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO GET AT
BEST FOR THE MARRIAGE.
THE ATTITUDES, PAUL TAYLOR, BUT
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO GET AT
FIRST WHAT, DO WE KNOW ABOUT WHY
THE ATTITUDES, PAUL TAYLOR, BUT
THIS HAS HAPPENED.
FIRST WHAT, DO WE KNOW ABOUT WHY
WHAT ARE THE BACKGROUND TRENDS
THIS HAS HAPPENED.
THAT HAVE BROUGHT THIS ON?
WHAT ARE THE BACKGROUND TRENDS
HOW MUCH OF IT IS THE ECONOMY?
THAT HAVE BROUGHT THIS ON?
>> A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT IS THE
HOW MUCH OF IT IS THE ECONOMY?
ECONOMY.
>> A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT IS THE
WE KNOW OVER THE LAST 40 OR 50
ECONOMY.
YEARS THE CHANGES IN THE ECONOMY
WE KNOW OVER THE LAST 40 OR 50
HAVE BEEN TOUGHER ON MEN THAN ON
YEARS THE CHANGES IN THE ECONOMY
WOMEN.
HAVE BEEN TOUGHER ON MEN THAN ON
AND THE KINDS OF INDUSTRIES THAT
WOMEN.
USED TO PROVIDE MIDDLE-CLASS
AND THE KINDS OF INDUSTRIES THAT
JOBS FOR MEN WHO DIDN'T HAVE AS
USED TO PROVIDE MIDDLE-CLASS
MUCH EDUCATION AS OTHERS, THOSE
JOBS FOR MEN WHO DIDN'T HAVE AS
ARE THE ONES THAT HAVE
MUCH EDUCATION AS OTHERS, THOSE
CONTRACTED, AND MEN HAVE
ARE THE ONES THAT HAVE
STRUGGLED OVER THE LAST 30, 40,
CONTRACTED, AND MEN HAVE
50 YEARS SO THE REACTION IN
STRUGGLED OVER THE LAST 30, 40,
FAMILIES IS FOR WOMEN, WIVES, TO
50 YEARS SO THE REACTION IN
PICK UP THE SLAKS.
FAMILIES IS FOR WOMEN, WIVES, TO
AND CERTAINLY IF YOU HAVE
PICK UP THE SLAKS.
SINGLE-PARENT HOUSEHOLDS,
AND CERTAINLY IF YOU HAVE
TYPICALLY WOMEN, THAT'S NOT
SINGLE-PARENT HOUSEHOLDS,
SLACK PICKING UP.
TYPICALLY WOMEN, THAT'S NOT
THIS IS HOW YOU KEEP THE FAMILY
SLACK PICKING UP.
AFLOAT.
THIS IS HOW YOU KEEP THE FAMILY
>> Woodruff: ELLEN GALINSKY,
AFLOAT.
FAMILY WORK INSTITUTE DOES A LOT
>> Woodruff: ELLEN GALINSKY,
OF RESEARCH ON THESE ISSUES.
FAMILY WORK INSTITUTE DOES A LOT
WHAT DO YOU SEE IN THESE
OF RESEARCH ON THESE ISSUES.
NUMBERS?
WHAT DO YOU SEE IN THESE
>> WE'VE SEEN THE SAME TREND IN
NUMBERS?
OUR NATIONAL STUDY OF THE
>> WE'VE SEEN THE SAME TREND IN
CHANGING ORCHFORCE.
OUR NATIONAL STUDY OF THE
AND WE'VE SEEN THAT THERE'S
CHANGING ORCHFORCE.
ACTUALLY A PRETTY BIG GAP.
AND WE'VE SEEN THAT THERE'S
WE LOOK AT WOMEN WHO EARN AT
ACTUALLY A PRETTY BIG GAP.
LEAST 10% MORE THAN THEIR
WE LOOK AT WOMEN WHO EARN AT
HUSBANDS AND HAVE FOUND THAT IS
LEAST 10% MORE THAN THEIR
27% OF ALL DUAL-EARNER FAMILIES,
HUSBANDS AND HAVE FOUND THAT IS
AND YOU HAVE 80% OF FAMILIES--
27% OF ALL DUAL-EARNER FAMILIES,
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE COUPLES IN THE
AND YOU HAVE 80% OF FAMILIES--
WORKFORCE WHERE BOTH OF THEM
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE COUPLES IN THE
WORK.
WORKFORCE WHERE BOTH OF THEM
SO IT CERTAINLY IS THE NEW
WORK.
NORMAL.
SO IT CERTAINLY IS THE NEW
>> Woodruff: AND ELLEN
NORMAL.
GALINSKY, STAYING SWW YOU, WHAT
>> Woodruff: AND ELLEN
ABOUT THE DISCREPANCY PAUL JUST
GALINSKY, STAYING SWW YOU, WHAT
DESCRIBED BETWEEN THAT CHUNK OF
ABOUT THE DISCREPANCY PAUL JUST
THESE WOMEN WHO ARE WORK WITH
DESCRIBED BETWEEN THAT CHUNK OF
CHILDREN WHO ARE SINGLE PARENTS,
THESE WOMEN WHO ARE WORK WITH
AND THOSE WHO WHOARE OUT-EARNING
CHILDREN WHO ARE SINGLE PARENTS,
THEIR HUSBANDS.
AND THOSE WHO WHOARE OUT-EARNING
WHAT DO YOU SEE THERE?
THEIR HUSBANDS.
>> WELL, WE TALK ABOUT CHOICE
WHAT DO YOU SEE THERE?
AND CHOICE SO IMPORTANT TO OUR
>> WELL, WE TALK ABOUT CHOICE
AMERICAN WAY OF LIVING BUT A LOT
AND CHOICE SO IMPORTANT TO OUR
OF FAMILIES DON'T FEEL THAT THEY
AMERICAN WAY OF LIVING BUT A LOT
HAVE CHOICES, WHETHER THEY'RE IN
OF FAMILIES DON'T FEEL THAT THEY
A COUPLE OR NOT.
HAVE CHOICES, WHETHER THEY'RE IN
IF WE GO BACK TO THE RECESSION
A COUPLE OR NOT.
THAT WASN'T TOO LONG AGO, AT
IF WE GO BACK TO THE RECESSION
LEAST INITIALLY MEN LOST MOST OF
THAT WASN'T TOO LONG AGO, AT
THE THE JOBS, AND IN FACT, WOMEN
LEAST INITIALLY MEN LOST MOST OF
WENT INTO THE WORKFORCE, OR
THE THE JOBS, AND IN FACT, WOMEN
STAYED IN THE WORKFORCE TO KEEP
WENT INTO THE WORKFORCE, OR
THEIR FAMILIES AFLOAT.
STAYED IN THE WORKFORCE TO KEEP
WE FIND THAT WOMEN BRING IN
THEIR FAMILIES AFLOAT.
ABOUT 45% OF FAMILY INCOME IN
WE FIND THAT WOMEN BRING IN
DUEL-EARNER FAMILIES.
ABOUT 45% OF FAMILY INCOME IN
WHEN I STARTED TO DO THIS
DUEL-EARNER FAMILIES.
RESEARCH, WOMEN'S WORK WAS
WHEN I STARTED TO DO THIS
CALLED "PIN MONEY.
RESEARCH, WOMEN'S WORK WAS
OF NOW WE FOUND AS EASTERLY
CALLED "PIN MONEY.
EARLY AS 1995, WOMEN DIFINE
OF NOW WE FOUND AS EASTERLY
THEMSELVES AS CARING FOR THEIR
EARLY AS 1995, WOMEN DIFINE
FAMILIES AS BEING BOTH ECONOMIC
THEMSELVES AS CARING FOR THEIR
PROVIDERS AND CHURTERS.
FAMILIES AS BEING BOTH ECONOMIC
MEN HAVE CHANGED, TOO.
PROVIDERS AND CHURTERS.
I MEAN, WE FIND THAT MEN WANT TO
MEN HAVE CHANGED, TOO.
BE MORE INVOLVED IN THEIR
I MEAN, WE FIND THAT MEN WANT TO
FAMILIES.
BE MORE INVOLVED IN THEIR
IT'S NOT JUST THEIR WIFE OR
FAMILIES.
THEIR PARTNER SAYING, DO, MORE,
IT'S NOT JUST THEIR WIFE OR
SHARE.
THEIR PARTNER SAYING, DO, MORE,
SHARE MORE MORE.
SHARE.
HELP.
SHARE MORE MORE.
OF WE FIND MEN WANT TO BE MORE
HELP.
INVOLVED, TKL PARTICULARLY WITH
OF WE FIND MEN WANT TO BE MORE
THEIR KIDS-- AND IF YOU LOOK AT
INVOLVED, TKL PARTICULARLY WITH
MEN OF DIFFERENT AGES, THE
THEIR KIDS-- AND IF YOU LOOK AT
YOUNGER MEN WILL SPEND A LOT
MEN OF DIFFERENT AGES, THE
MORE TIME, EVEN IF THEY'VE GOT
YOUNGER MEN WILL SPEND A LOT
YOUNG KIDS, THAN THE OLDER MEN.
MORE TIME, EVEN IF THEY'VE GOT
THERE'S A REAL SOCIETAL SHIFT IN
YOUNG KIDS, THAN THE OLDER MEN.
MEN, TOO, INMENTING TO BE MORE
THERE'S A REAL SOCIETAL SHIFT IN
INVOLVED WITH THEIR KID AND WITH
MEN, TOO, INMENTING TO BE MORE
THEIR FAMILIES.
INVOLVED WITH THEIR KID AND WITH
>> Woodruff: SO PAUL TAYLOR
THEIR FAMILIES.
PICKING UP ON THAT ATTITUDE
>> Woodruff: SO PAUL TAYLOR
POINT YOU BRUTE UP AT THE
PICKING UP ON THAT ATTITUDE
OUTSET, HOW ARE PEOPLE LOOKING
POINT YOU BRUTE UP AT THE
ON THIS?
OUTSET, HOW ARE PEOPLE LOOKING
ARE THEY PLEASED ABOUT IT?
ON THIS?
ARE THEY FEELING SOMETHING IS
ARE THEY PLEASED ABOUT IT?
OUT OF WHACK?
ARE THEY FEELING SOMETHING IS
WHAT ARE YOU SEEING?
OUT OF WHACK?
>> I THINK THERE ARE TWO MIND.
WHAT ARE YOU SEEING?
THEY ARE LIVING THIS CHANGE AND
>> I THINK THERE ARE TWO MIND.
IT'S DRAMATIC AND ALMOST
THEY ARE LIVING THIS CHANGE AND
EVERYBODY LIVES IT, AND WHEN WE
IT'S DRAMATIC AND ALMOST
ASKED DO YOU WANT TO GO BACK TO
EVERYBODY LIVES IT, AND WHEN WE
THE OLD WORLD WITH WOMEN IN
ASKED DO YOU WANT TO GO BACK TO
THEIR TRADITIONAL ROLES -- BY
THE OLD WORLD WITH WOMEN IN
WHICH WE MEAN THE HOMEMAKER--
THEIR TRADITIONAL ROLES -- BY
CITY% SAY NO.
WHICH WE MEAN THE HOMEMAKER--
THAT CHANGE IS THERE AND THE
CITY% SAY NO.
PUBLIC ACCEPT ACCEPTS THAT.
THAT CHANGE IS THERE AND THE
AND THEY SEE THE ECONOMIC VALUE
PUBLIC ACCEPT ACCEPTS THAT.
AND NECESSITY OF THE WOMEN IN
AND THEY SEE THE ECONOMIC VALUE
THE WORKPLACE.
AND NECESSITY OF THE WOMEN IN
WE ASKED THE QUESTION, "WHAT'S
THE WORKPLACE.
BEST FOR CHILDREN?
WE ASKED THE QUESTION, "WHAT'S
IS IT GUEST IF THE FATHER STAYS
BEST FOR CHILDREN?
HOME.
IS IT GUEST IF THE FATHER STAYS
8% SAY THAT'S BEST FOR CHILDREN.
HOME.
IS IT BEST IF THE MOTHER STAYS
8% SAY THAT'S BEST FOR CHILDREN.
HOME AND CARES FOR THE KID FULL
IS IT BEST IF THE MOTHER STAYS
TIME?
HOME AND CARES FOR THE KID FULL
51% SAY THAT'S BEST.
TIME?
SO YOU HAVE ATTITUDES CHANGING
51% SAY THAT'S BEST.
BUT YOU STILL HAVE THE
SO YOU HAVE ATTITUDES CHANGING
TRADITIONAL TEMPLATE THAT
BUT YOU STILL HAVE THE
EXERCISES SOME INFLUENCE ON THE
TRADITIONAL TEMPLATE THAT
WAY PEOPLE THINK ABOUT IT.
EXERCISES SOME INFLUENCE ON THE
TO PICK UP ON ELLEN'S POINT, WE
WAY PEOPLE THINK ABOUT IT.
DID A BIG TIME USE SURVEY OVER
TO PICK UP ON ELLEN'S POINT, WE
THE LAST 50 YEARS, IT'S THERE'S
DID A BIG TIME USE SURVEY OVER
NO QUESTION MAWRGTS ARE DOING
THE LAST 50 YEARS, IT'S THERE'S
MORE.
NO QUESTION MAWRGTS ARE DOING
AND THEY WANT TO DO MORE.
MORE.
BUT WOMEN AND MOTHERS ARE STILL
AND THEY WANT TO DO MORE.
ON THE FRONT LINES OF CARING FOR
BUT WOMEN AND MOTHERS ARE STILL
THE KIDS.
ON THE FRONT LINES OF CARING FOR
THAT'S JUST THE WAY THINGS ARE.
THE KIDS.
>> Woodruff: ELLEN, WHAT ABOUT
THAT'S JUST THE WAY THINGS ARE.
THE CHILDREN?
>> Woodruff: ELLEN, WHAT ABOUT
YOU'VE LOOKED AT THAT QUESTION
THE CHILDREN?
CLOSELY, AND ALSO WHAT THE
YOU'VE LOOKED AT THAT QUESTION
CHILDREN THINK ABOUT THIS?
CLOSELY, AND ALSO WHAT THE
>> WELL, IN THE PEW STUDY THE
CHILDREN THINK ABOUT THIS?
YOUNGER YOU WERE THE LESS LIKELY
>> WELL, IN THE PEW STUDY THE
YOU ARE TO HOLD THOSE
YOUNGER YOU WERE THE LESS LIKELY
TRADITIONAL VALUES.
YOU ARE TO HOLD THOSE
WE SEE A VALUE SHIFT.
TRADITIONAL VALUES.
I DID A STUDY WHERE I ASKED
WE SEE A VALUE SHIFT.
CHILDREN IF THEY COULD MAKE ONE
I DID A STUDY WHERE I ASKED
THING, OVER ONE CHANGE, OF THE
CHILDREN IF THEY COULD MAKE ONE
HOW THE MOTHER OR FATHER'S LIVES
THING, OVER ONE CHANGE, OF THE
AFFECT THEIR LIVES AND MOST
HOW THE MOTHER OR FATHER'S LIVES
THOUGHT KIDS WOULD WISH MORE FOR
AFFECT THEIR LIVES AND MOST
MORE TIME.
THOUGHT KIDS WOULD WISH MORE FOR
WHAT KIDS WISHED-- AND I THINK
MORE TIME.
THIS IS IMPORTANT-- IS THAT
WHAT KIDS WISHED-- AND I THINK
THEIR PARENTS WOULD BE LESS
THIS IS IMPORTANT-- IS THAT
TIRED AND STRESSED.
THEIR PARENTS WOULD BE LESS
THE MAJORITY OF KIDS-- YOU KNOW,
TIRED AND STRESSED.
WHEN WE LOOK AT IS WORK GOOD OR
THE MAJORITY OF KIDS-- YOU KNOW,
BAD FOR KID?
WHEN WE LOOK AT IS WORK GOOD OR
IT DEPENDS ON THE JOB YOU HAVE.
BAD FOR KID?
IT DEPEND ON WHAT YOUR BELIEFS
IT DEPENDS ON THE JOB YOU HAVE.
ARE, AND IT DEPEND ON THE
IT DEPEND ON WHAT YOUR BELIEFS
QUALITY OF THE CARE OR EDUCATION
ARE, AND IT DEPEND ON THE
YOU HAVE FOR YOUR CHILDREN WHEN
QUALITY OF THE CARE OR EDUCATION
YOU'RE NOT THERE.
YOU HAVE FOR YOUR CHILDREN WHEN
SO THE IMPACT ON CHILDREN REALLY
YOU'RE NOT THERE.
COMES OUT TO THE FACT THAT YOU
SO THE IMPACT ON CHILDREN REALLY
CAN'T TELL VERY MUCH ABOUT HOW A
COMES OUT TO THE FACT THAT YOU
CHILD IS GOING TO TURN OUT
CAN'T TELL VERY MUCH ABOUT HOW A
SIMPLY BECAUSE THAT CHILD'S
CHILD IS GOING TO TURN OUT
MOTHER WORKS.
SIMPLY BECAUSE THAT CHILD'S
>> Woodruff: IT'S NOT JUST THE
MOTHER WORKS.
TIME.
>> Woodruff: IT'S NOT JUST THE
ELLEN GALINSKY, PAUL TAYLOR, WE
TIME.
THANK YOU.
ELLEN GALINSKY, PAUL TAYLOR, WE
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> BACK TO THE PAKISTAN STORY WE
PROMISED YOU.
PAKISTANI TALIBAN TODAY WITH A
MISSILE FIRED FROM A DRONE.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Reporter: PAKISTANI
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS SAY THIS
MAN-- WALI-UR-REHMAN-- WAS
KILLED IN THE DRONE ATTACK,
ALONG WITH FOUR OTHERS.
THEY SAY THE DRONE FIRED
MISSILES AT A HOUSE IN MIRAN
SHAH, A TOWN INSIDE THE NORTH
WAZIRISTAN TRIBAL REGION NEAR
THE AFGHANISTAN BORDER.
REHMAN HAD A $5 MILLION U.S.
BOUNTY ON HIS HEAD, BUT IN
WASHINGTON, WHITE HOUSE PRESS
SECRETARY JAY CARNEY WOULD NOT
CONFIRM THE ATTACK OR ANY
DEATHS.
>> WELL, WE ARE NOT IN A
POSITION TO CONFIRM THE REPORTS
OF WALI-UR-REHMAN'S DEATH.
IF THOSE REPORTS WERE TRUE, OR
PROVE TO BE TRUE, IT'S WORTH
NOTING THAT HIS DEMISE WOULD
DEPRIVE THE T.T.P., TEHRIK-E-
TALIBAN PAKISTAN, OF ITS SECOND-
IN-COMMAND AND CHIEF MILITARY
STRATEGIST.
WALI-UR-REHMAN HAS PARTICIPATED
IN CROSS-BORDER ATTACKS IN
AFGHANISTAN AGAINST U.S. AND
NATO PERSONNEL AND HORRIFIC
ATTACKS AGAINST PAKISTANI
CIVILIANS AND SOLDIERS.
AND HE IS WANTED IN CONNECTION
TO THE MURDER OF SEVEN AMERICAN
CITIZENS ON DECEMBER 30TH, 2009,
AT FORWARD OPERATING BASE
CHAPMAN IN KHOST, AFGHANISTAN.
>> Reporter: FOR ITS PART, THE
PAKISTANI TALIBAN DENIED THE
REPORT OF REHMAN'S DEATH,
CALLING IT FALSE NEWS.
AND, THE PAKISTANI MINISTRY OF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS ISSUED A
STATEMENT SAYING, "DRONE STRIKES
VIOLATE THE PRINCIPLES OF
NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY,
TERRITORIAL INTEGRITY AND
INTERNATIONAL LAW."
THERE WAS NO DIRECT MENTION OF
REHMAN.
TODAY'S STRIKE CAME LESS THAN A
WEEK AFTER PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID
HE'S IMPLEMENTING NEW
RESTRICTIONS ON DRONE ATTACKS,
EVEN AS HE DEFENDED THEIR USE.
>> AMERICA DOES NOT TAKE STRIKES
TO PUNISH INDIVIDUALS; WE ACT
AGAINST TERRORISTS WHO POSE A
CONTINUING AND IMMINENT THREAT
TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, AND WHEN
THERE ARE NO OTHER GOVERNMENTS
CAPABLE OF EFFECTIVELY
ADDRESSING THE THREAT.
>> Reporter: THE PAKISTANI
GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN HIGHLY
CRITICAL OF U.S. STRIKES INSIDE
ITS BORDERS, POINTING TO
NUMEROUS CIVILIANS INJURED AND
KILLED IN THE ATTACKS.
INCOMING PRIME MINISTER NAWAZ
SHARIF HAS STRONGLY CONDEMNED
THE DRONE ATTACKS, AND HE'S
EXPECTED TO PRESS FOR AN END TO
THEM.
THE PAKISTANI TALIBAN WAS
RESPONSIBLE FOR NUMEROUS ATTACKS
LEADING UP TO THIS MONTH'S
ELECTIONS.
BUT SHARIF HAS SAID HE'S OPEN TO
TALKS WITH THE MILITANTS, IN A
BID TO END THE FIGHTING IN
TRIBAL AREAS.
>> Ifill: NOW TO THE SECOND OF
OUR STORIES ON THE ROLE OF
TECHNOLOGY IN UNRAVELING THE
BOSTON BOMBING CASE.
LAST NIGHT SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT
MILES O'BRIEN TRAVELED TO AN
EXPLOSIVES TESTING FACILITY TO
LEARN MORE ABOUT THE BOMB
ITSELF.
TONIGHT, AS PART OF HIS WORK FOR
A SPECIAL NOVA PROGRAM, HE
REPORTS ON THE FACIAL
RECOGNITION SOFTWARE THAT
ALLOWED INVESTIGATORS TO
IDENTIFY THE BOMBING SUSPECTS.
WELCOME TO THE NEW YORK POLICE
DEPARTMENT'S FACIAL
IDENTIFICATION SECTION OPINION
DO YOU FEEL LIKE YOU'RE SORT OF
AT THE BEGINNING OF WHEN
FINGERPRINTS FIRST CAME THERE.
THIS THE BEGINNING OF WHERE
POLICING IS HEADED IN MANY
RESPECTS?
>> YEAH, VERY MUCH SO.
THIS IS A CUTTING EDGE.
WELL, IT'S NOT AS GOOD AS A
FINGERPRINT.
THIS DOESN'T HAVE THE CONFIDENCE
LEVEL OF THAT.
IT'S NOT A DEFINITIVE SCIENCE
SUCH AS FINGERPRINTS AND D.N.A.
BUT THIS IS GOOD, JUST
BASICALLY.
MAYBE WE CAN GET A LEAD, MAYBE
WE CAN BE POINTED IN A DIRECTION
THAT THIS MIGHT BE A POSSIBLE
PERSON.
HOLLYWOOD MAKES FACIAL
RECOGNITION LOOK EASY.
BUT WHEN YOU FACE THE FACTS,
THIS LAW ENFORCEMENT TOOL IS NOT
AS EASY AS IT LOOKS IN THE
MOVIES.
MEKEEL GAVE US A DEMONSTRATION--
A SCENARIO SIMILAR TO THE BOSTON
MARATON BHOMBINGS: A GRAINY
SURVEILLANCE IMAGE OF A
SUSPECTED TERRORIST.
FIRST, THEY LOOK FOR THE BEST
PICTURE.
>> THIS IMAGE AS YOU CAN SEE HAS
THE HEAD A LITTLE TURNED.
THIS PARTICULAR HEAD IS DOWN.
THERE REALLY IS NOT MUCH FACE
AND WE ARE LOOKING... FACIAL
RECOGNITION SOFTWARE IS A
FRONTAL POSE.
THIS SEEMS TO BE THE BEST
PICTURE WE WOULD UTILIZE IN THIS
SITUATION, SO WE WOULD GRAB THIS
PICTURE.
SO WHAT WE DO IS WE CAPTURE THE
IMAGE THAT WE WANT, WE CUT AND
CROP IT.
>> Reporter: BUT THE SOFTWARE
ONLY WORKS IF THE PERSON IS
SQUARELY FACING THE CAMERA.
AND THIS ANGLE IS NOT GOOD
ENOUGH.
BUT THERE IS A WAY TO FIX THAT.
THEY MAP OUT THE SUSPECTS FACE,
PLACING CROSSHAIRS ON SEVERAL
KEY FEATURES: EARS, NOSE, EYES,
CHIN, MOUTH.
ONCE THE SOFTWARE KNOWS WHERE
ALL THOSE FEATURES ARE, IT USES
A FORMULA TO CONVERT THE
SLIGHTLY ASKEW PHOTO INTO A
THREE DIMENSIONAL IMAGE.
AND THAT ALLOWS THEM TO TURN THE
SUSPECTS FACE DIRECTLY TOWARD
THE CAMERA, VIRTUALLY.
>> NOW, WE'RE USING THE FRONTAL
POSE, CALLED THE NORMALIZATION
POSE.
WE'RE GOING TO ENTER IT INTO THE
FACIAL RECOGNITION SOFTWARE.
WE WANT TO USE THIS PROBE IMAGE
OF AN UNKNOWN INDIVIDUAL AGAINST
TO OUR GALLERY OF KNOWN
INDIVIDUALS, AND WE BASICALLY
HAVE CLOSE TO FOUR MILLION
IMAGES THAT WE USE WITHIN THE
N.Y.P.D.
>> Reporter: THE IMAGES ARE
MUGSHOTS, BUT IN THIS
DEMONSTRATION THEY ARE ACTUALLY
COPS.
POLICE HERE SAY THEY DON'T LOOK
FOR A MATCH BY TROLLING THROUGH
DRIVERS LICENSE, PASSPORT OR
VISA PHOTOS, MUCH LESS FACEBOOK.
>> NOW, IN ORDER TO PUT THAT IN,
WE INPUT IT INTO OUR FACIAL
RECOGNITION SOFTWARE.
WE WANT TO LINE UP THE EYES AS
BEST AS POSSIBLE.
TRY TO CENTER IT.
AND YOU CAN SEE, EVEN THOUGH
THIS PICTURE IS NOT
AESTHETICALLY NICE TO HUMANS
LOOKING AT IT, YOU CAN SEE THAT
IT CAN WORK, THOUGH, WITHIN THE
SOFTWARE
>> Reporter: IN THE DEMO, THE
FACE IS A MATCH.
BUT THIS MAKES IT LOOK A LITTLER
EASIER THAN IT IS.
THE DATABASE IS RELATIVELY SMALL
AND IN THIS CASE, THE PERP IS
DETECTIVE ROGER RODRIGUEZ,
ASSIGNED TO THE UNIT, AND
SITTING IN THE BACK ROW WATCHING
THE BOSS DO THE DEMO.
>> THE PROBLEM THAT WE HAVE
WITHIN LAW ENFORCEMENT DOING
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS WITH
FACIAL IS THAT WE ARE NOT
UTILIZING CONTROLLED IMAGES AS
PROBES, SO THE UNIDENTIFIED
PERSON IS A BAD IMAGE FOR THE
MOST PART.
>> Reporter: SO FAR THIS UNIT
HAS ANALYZED 1,900 IMAGES,
TURNED UP MORE THAN 386 MATCHES
AND THAT HAS LED TO 141 ARRESTS.
>> THE OPTIMUM SCENARIO IS A
GOOD HIGH-RESOLUTION PICTURE,
VERY WELL PIXILATED.
WE NEED IT TO THE POINT WHERE
THE LIGHTING IS CORRECT, THE
DISTANCE IS NOT TOO FAR, AND
THOSE ARE EASIER TO MANAGE AND
TO WORK WITH WITHIN THE FACIAL
RECOGNITION SYSTEM.
>> Reporter: IN PITTSBURGH, AT
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY'S
BIOMETRICS CENTER, ENGINEER
MARIOS SAVVIDES IS LEADING A
TEAM THAT IS PUSHING FACIAL
RECOGNITION TO THE NEXT LEVEL.
WHEN HE SAW THE PHOTOS OF THE
BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING SUSPECTS
RELEASED THREE DAYS AFTER THE
ATTACK, HE SPRANG INTO ACTION,
EVEN THOUGH THE ODDS WERE SLIM
THAT HE COULD DO ANYTHING TO
HELP INVESTIGATORS IN BOSTON.
>> THE PROBLEM IN THE BOSTON
CASE IS THAT THE IMAGE WAS SO
SMALL THAT CURRENT TECHNOLOGY
CANNOT HANDLE THAT LOW
RESOLUTION FACE, THERE'S SIMPLY
NOT ENOUGH INFORMATION.
SO YOU HAVE TO EMPLOY SUPER
RESOLUTION TECHNIQUES AND IMAGE
ENHANCEMENT TECHNIQUES TO
BASICALLY, WHAT WE CALL, THE
COMPUTER HAS TO HALLUCINATE.
AND I HATE TO USE THAT WORD, BUT
IF YOU LOOK AT THE INPUT IMAGE
AND YOU LOOK AT WHAT THE
COMPUTER OR ALGORITHM CAN
DEVELOP, YOU'LL ALMOST THINK,
WELL HOW ON EARTH WAS IT ABLE TO
ACTUALLY EXTRACT THAT.
>> Reporter: HOW INDEED!
THE BEST POSSIBLE IMAGE WAS THIS
ONE.
A VERY LOW RESOLUTION POORLY
LIT, BUT NEARLY FULL FRONTAL
IMAGE OF THE YOUNGER TSARNAEV
BROTHER, DZHOKAR.
SAVVIDES AND HIS TEAM PLOTTED 79
DISTINCT POINTS ON HIS FACE, AS
BEST THEY COULD.
>> SO WE'LL CLICK ON THE IMAGE
AND THIS IS WHAT YOU'RE REALLY
SEEING.
AND YOU CAN SEE YOU REALLY DON'T
SEE A LOT OF THE FACIAL
STRUCTURE.
O WES HAVE TO ESTIMATE WHERE
THOSE LINE MARKS ARE ON THE
FACE.
>> Reporter: THEY FED THE BLURRY
IMAGE WITH THE MARKINGS INTO
THEIR LATEST FACIAL RECOGNITION
ALGORITHM.
>> OUR ALGORITHM WAS ABLE TO
BASICALLY ENHANCE AND EXTRACT
THIS FACE.
SO THIS IS THE FACE THAT CAME
FROM THAT.
>> Reporter: SAVVIDES CALLS THE
IT A SUPER RESOLUTION ENHANCED
IMAGE.
HE INTENDED TO SEND THE IT TO
THE F.B.I., BUT BY THE TIME THEY
FINISHED IT WAS 2:42 FRIDAY
MORNING.
THE SHOOTOUT IN WATERTOWN WAS
OVER AND THE BROTHERS WERE
IDENTIFIED.
NOW THERE WERE PLENTY OF HIGH
RESOLUTION SHOTS TO CHOOSE FROM.
ON THE SURFACE.
IT SEEMS AS IF SAVVIDES COMPUTER
HALLUCINATION WASN'T VERY
ACCURATE OR USEFUL.
BUT, COMPUTERS SEE THE WORLD
DIFFERENTLY.
SO SAVVIDES SET UP A QUICK
EXPERIMENT.
HE ADDED A HIGH RESOLUTION
FRONTAL IMAGE DZHOKAR TSARNAEV
TO A DATABASE OF ONE MILLION
IMAGES.
>> SO WE WANT TO SEE IN THESE
50,000 IMAGES COULD WE FIND HIM?
IS HE IN THE TOP 100?
WHERE IS HE?
ABLE TO MATCH ONE OF TSARNAEV'S
FRONTAL IMAGES.
WHEN HE NARROWS THE SEARCH IT
GETS MORE INTERESTING.
AFTER RULING OUT WOMEN,
NONCAUCASIANS, HEAVY FACIAL HAIR
AND THESE OVER 25, THE PHOTO
RANKS NUMBER 20.
THIS WAS A EUREKA MOMENT.
>> BASE ON THE RESULTS WE HAVE,
WE SEE THEY'RE ACCURATE.
WE'RE STILL BLOWN AWAY ON HOW IT
WORKSZ.
I MEAN WE STILL CAN'T BELIEVE
HOW AMAZING WE GOT, WHEN WE
ENHANCED THAT IMAGE AND WE GO,
BUT I SAY, WELL THIS WASN'T A
RANDOM FACE.
>> Reporter: SO HOW DOES IT
WORK?
I VOLUNTEERED MY FACE FOR A
DEMONSTRATION.
THE REDUCED RESOLUTION IMAGE, 25
PIXELS ACROSS THE EYES LEADS TO
THIS INTERPRETATION.
>> THE GENERAL FACE STRUCTURE
THAT IS PRETTY MUCH MAINTAINED,
ALL THESE FEATURES ARE THERE
FROM THIS.
>> Reporter: WHAT ABOUT 12
PIXELS BETWEEN THE EYES?
THE KIND OF IMAGE YOU WOULD
TYPICALLY GET FROM A C.C.T.V.
CAMERA.
>> SO LET'S SEE WHAT HAPPENS
WHEN WE'RE IN ALGORITHM.
OKAY, WOW.
>> NOT BAD.
SO WE WENT FROM THIS IMAGE TO
THIS IMAGE.
AND IF WE COMPARE TO THE ACTUAL
HIGH RESOLUTION, AGAIN THE
EYEBROW STRUCTURE IS THERE, THE
NOSE, THE EYES, THE MOUTH, WE'VE
LOST THE HIGH FREQUENCY TEXTURE
BECAUSE THERE IS NO
INFORMATION.
BUT THE STRUCTURE OF THE FACE
IS THERE.
>> Reporter: HOW LOW CAN IT GO?
WHAT ABOUT SIX PIXELS FROM EYE
TO EYE?
>> SO FROM THIS TO GET THIS,
THAT'S AMAZING AND THAT'S HOW
COMPUTERS CAN BE BETTER THAN
HUMAN MINDS BECAUSE I COULD
NOT EXTRAPOLATE THIS INFORMATION
FROM THIS.
>> BOY I SHOULD HAVE SHAVED.
YOU'RE REALLY GETTING EVERY
WHISKER.
THE SECRET IS MACHINE LEARNING
AND PATTERN RECOGNITION.
INSTEAD OF TRYING TO TELL THE
COMPUTER HOW TO TURN A FEW
PIXELS INTO A RECOGNIZABLE FACE,
SAVVIDES SIMPLY SHOWS IT
THOUSANDS AND EVENTUALLY
MILLIONS OF EXAMPLES OF THE SAME
FACES IN VERY LOW AND VERY HIGH
RESOLUTION.
OVER TIME, THE COMPUTER
IDENTIFIES PATTERNS AND MAKES
CONNECTIONS THAT HUMANS CANNOT.
IT LEARNS.
>> THAT'S WHERE COMPUTERS CAN BE
SMART AND THAT'S WHERE IT CAN DO
THINGS THAT OUR HUMAN BRAIN
CANN DO,OT BECAUSE IT CAN LEARN
THE RELATIONSHIP OF WHAT A LOW
RESOLUTION, DEGRADED FACE IMAGE
IS AND WHAT THE HIGH RES.
WHEN GIVEN ENOUGH DATA TO LEARN
THAT RELATIONSHIP, THEN IT CAN
ACTUALLY BUILD AN ALGORITHM TO
EXTRACT THE HIGH RES FACE THAT
YOU CAN FEED INTO SUCH SYSTEMS
TO TRY TO GIVE YOU A MATCH.
>> Reporter: THIS IS NOT ALL
THAT THEY ARE WORKING ON HERE,
THEY ARE LOOKING FOR WAYS TO
IDENTIFY FACES SIMPLY BY
FOCUSING ON THE EYES OR EVEN
JUST THE EYEBROWS.
THEY ARE PREDICTING AGE BETTER
THAN A CARNIVAL BARKER.
THEY ARE WORKING ON PUTTING
SMART PHONES AND THEY ARE
DEVELOPING SOPHISTICATED
INFRARED CAMERAS THAT SCAN
IRISES.
>> WHEN LAW ENFORCEMENT HAS
NOTHING TO WORK ON, HAVE NO
ADS,LE ANY LEAD IS SOMETHING.
SO THERE'S A CHANCE IT MAYBE
WRONG.
IT WAS WRONG, OKAY, BUT IT WAS A
LEAD.
BUT IF IT WAS RIGHT, IF IT WAS
ABLE TO GET TO AN IMAGE IN THAT
TOP 50, THEN THAT'S HUGE.
AND TH IS ISTHE THING, HOW CAN
YOU GIVE THE INVESTIGATORS
SOMETHING TO WORK ON?
>> Reporter: FACIAL RECOGNITION
MAY NOT MEASURE UP TO THE MOVIES
JUST YET, BUT IT IS COMING SOON
TO A POLICE DEPARTMENT NEAR YOU.
>> Ifill: NEXT, WE TAKE A LOOK
AT THE ISSUE OF BORDER SECURITY,
AS PART OF OUR ONGOING
SERIES, "INSIDE IMMIGRATION
REFORM."
AND TO RAY SUAREZ.
>> Suarez: IT'S CRITICAL TO THE
DEBATE OVER IMMIGRATION REFORM:
SECURITY ALONG THE UNITED
STATES' NEARLY 2000-MILE BORDER
WITH MEXICO.
NOGALES, ARIZONA IS A CASE IN
POINT.
A LONG STRETCH OF FENCING
SERATEPAS THE 20,000 RESIDENTS
THERE FROM MORE THAN 200,000
PEOPLE JUST ACROSS THE BORDER IN
NOGALES, MEXICO.
IT'S ONE OF THE BUSIEST PORTS OF
ENTRY BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES,
AND U.S. BORDER PATROL AGENTS
PROCESS MILLIONS OF LEGAL
CROSSINGS EACH YEAR.
BUT MORE THAN 124,000 PEOPLE
WERE CAUGHT CROSSING ILLEGALLY
LAST YEAR.
MILLIONS MORE HAVE NOT BEEN
CAUGHT OVER THE YEARS.
AND REPUBLICANS SAY THEY SHOULD
NOT BE GIVEN A PATH TO
CITIZENSHIP UNTIL THE BORDER IS
SECURED.
REPUBLICAN SENATOR JOHN McCAIN
OF ARIZONA HELPED AUTHOR THE
IMMIGRATION BILL NOW HEADED TO
THE SENATE.
>> WE'VE CONFRONTED THE REALITY
OF DE FACTO AMNESTY FOR THE 11
MILLION OR MORE PEOPLE WHO CAME
HERE ILLEGALLY BY PROPOSING A
LENGTHY PATH TO CITIZENSHIP THAT
DOESN'T PLACE LAWFUL IMMIGRANTS
AT A DISADVANTAGE AND IT AND IS
CONTINGENT ON DOING EVERYTHING
POSSIBLE TO MAKE OUR BORDER
SECURE AND DISCOURAGE FUTURE
WAVES OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION.
>> Suarez: ON THE OTHER HAND,
MANY DEMOCRATS ARGUE THAT THE
BORDER HAS NEVER BEEN SAFER.
THEY POINT TO NEARLY 20,000 U.S.
BORDER PATROL AGENTS PATROLLING
THE BOUNDARY, AND TO A NETWORK
OF CAMERAS, SENSORS, DRONES AND
SOME 700 MILES OF FENCING.
PRESIDENT OBAMA MADE THAT POINT
ON HIS VISIT TO MEXICO EARLIER
THIS MONTH.
>> I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT FOR
EVERYBODY TO REMEMBER THAT OUR
SHARED BORDER IS MORE SECURE
THAN IT'S BEEN IN YEARS.
ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION ATTEMPTS
INTO THE UNITED STATES ARE NEAR
THEIR LOWEST LEVEL IN DECADES,
AND LEGAL IMMIGRATION CONTINUES
TO MAKE BOTH OF OUR COUNTRIES
STRONGER AND MORE PROSPEROUS AND
MORE COMPETITIVE.
>> Suarez: INDEED, SOME 1.6
MILLION PEOPLE WERE APPREHENDED
ON THE SOUTHWEST BORDER BACK IN
2000, WHILE IN 2012, THE NUMBER
FELL TO JUST OVER 350,000.
>> Suarez: SO, HOW SECURE IS THE
BORDER?
FOR THAT, WE GET TWO DIFFERENT
VIEWS FROM LAW ENFORCEMENT
LEADERS WHOSE COUNTIES SIT
DIRECTLY ON THE U.S. BORDER WITH
MEXICO.
TONY ESTRADA IS THE SHERIFF OF
SANTA CRUZ COUNTY, ARIZONA.
AND CAPTAIN ROBERT WILSON IS A
SHERIFF'S DEPUTY IN HUDSPETH
COUNTY, TEXAS.
GENTLEMEN, A LOT OF ATTENTION'S
BEEN PAID TO BORDER SECURITY IN
THE DOZEN YEARS SINCE 9/11.
AS WE'RE APPROACHING A NATIONAL
DEBATE OVER IMMIGRATION REFORM,
CAN ESTRADA, SAY
THE SAY THE BORDER IS MORE
SECURE THAN IT USED TO BE?
>> I CAN DEFINITELY SAY THAT.
I'VE BEEN THERE 45 YEARS ALONG
THE BORDER WITH MEXICO, AND
WE'VE HAD MORE RESOURCES, MORE
TECHNOL, MORE BOOT ON THE
GROUND.
IT JUST HAS IMPROVED
TREMENDOUSLY.
THE URBAN AREA, WE CONSIDER
NOGALES AND SANTA CRUZ COUNTY
PRETTY SECURE.
BUT IT'S A CHALLENGE.
THE BORDER WITH NASDAQ CONTINUES
TO BE A MAJOR CHALLENGE THAT
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A FOR A LONG
TIME.
>> CAPTAIN WILSON, SAME
QUESTION, IS THE BORDER MORE
SECURE GIAGREE WITH THE SHERIFF
THAT THERE HAS BEEN MORE
RESOURCES THROWN AT THE BORDER,
AND MAYBE IN THAT AREA, BUT IN
HUDSPETH COUNTY, TEXAS, WE HAVE
99 MILES OF RIVER BORDER WITH
MEXICO, AND THE BORDER IS
SECURE IN THAT AREA.
WE STILL HAVE CONTINUED CARTEL
ACTIVITY ACROSS THE RIVER.
WE STILL HAVE FOLKS FROM OUR
COMMUNITIES BEING EXECUTED,
TAKEN FROM TEXAS AND EXECUTED IN
MEXICO.
AND THE IMMIGRATION PROBLEM, THE
PEOPLE COMING OVER IS THE SAME.
IT HASN'T DIMINISHED.
>> Suarez: LET ME FOLLOW UP
WITH YOU, CAPTAIN WILSON, IS IT
POSSIBLEUE MENTIONED 99 MILES OF
RIVER FRONTIER WITH ANOTHER
COUNTRY-- IS IT POSSIBLE TO-- IS
IT AFFORDABLE TO SEAL MEXICO OFF
FROM THE UNITED STATES IN THOSE
PLACES TO CONTROL CROSS-BORDER
MOVEMENTS?
>> I DON'T BELIEVE IT'S FEES EBL
TO COMPLETELY SEAL THE BORDER
WITH MEXICO.
AND I DON'T BELIEVE YOU'D WANT
TO.
I MEAN, THERE'S A GOOD
RELATIONSHIP WITH THAT
GOVERNMENT.
THERE'S COMMERCE AND TRADE, AND
I THINK THAT NEED TO CONTINUE.
>> Suarez: SO WHAT DO YOU NEED
THAT YOU DON'T HAVE?
>> I BELIEVE THAT WE NEED MORE
PEOPLE, MORE PATROLS FROM U.S.
BORDER PATROL.
THEY'RE DOING WHAT THEY CAN WITH
WHAT THEY HAVE.
AND MAYBE POLICIES OUT OF
WASHINGTON CONCERNING THE BORDER
MIGHT NEED TO BE LOOKED AT.
>> Suarez: SHERIFF, STRAEDA
YOU HEARD CAPTAIN WILSON TALK
BECOME A MOSTLY RURAL AREA.
NOGALES IS ONE OF THE MAJOR
CROSSINGS IN YOUR PART OF THE
COUNTRY.
HOW ARE THE THE PROBLEMS IT
DIFFERENT THERE?
>> WELL, I GUESS WE HAVE A
RUGGED, REMOTE TERRAIN, VALLEYS,
CANYONS THAT, OBVIOUSLY, ARE
VERY ATTRACTIVE FOR THESE
ORGANIZATIONS TO MOVE DRUGS AND
PEOPLE.
UN, WE'VE ALWAYS HAD THAT
CHALLENGE OF HAVING TO DEAL WITH
THOSE REMOTE AREAS WHERE YOU
ACTUALLY HAVE VERY LITTLE WAYS
OF DETECTING THAT TYPE OF
ACTIVITY AND THAT TYPE OF
MOVEMENT.
WE'RE NOT SEEING THE
VIOLENCE,OB, THAT THE SHERIFF--
THE CAPTAIN MENTIONED THAT HE'S
HAVING IN HIS AREA.
AND I THINK THAT'S VERY
IMPORTANT TO RECOGNIZE AND BE
MINDFUL THAT THE DYNAMIC CHANGED
TREMENDOUSLY FROM BORDER TO
BORDER.
>> Suarez: AND WHEN WE LOOK AT
A PLACE LIKE NOGALES, WOULD WE--
IF WE WERE TO VISIT THE BORDER
TODAY-- SEE MORE IN THE WAY OF
ACTUAL PHYSICAL BARRIERS SO THAT
PEOPLE CAN'T CROSS ON FOOT AS
EASILY ANY LONGER?
>> OH, DEFINITELY.
THEY HAVE MORE BARRIERS,
OBVIOUSLY, MORE WALLS, MORE
SENSORS, MORE FLOODLIGHT, A LOT
MORE TECHNOL THAT HAS BEEN
APOLITE PLOOID ALONG THE BORDER
ASK WHICHMAKES IT MORE AND MORE
DIFFICULT.
BUT YOU STILL HAVE THE
CONNECTION TO THE MAJOR HIGHWAYS
HERE IN ARIZONA, AND THE MAJOR
HUBS OF TUCSON AND PHOENIX.
THIS IS A MAJOR QUARTER FOR
DRUGS AND PEOPLE.
IT'S GOING TO CONTINUE.
THEY'RE GOING TO FIND WAYS.
WE'VE HAD TUNNELS, IN 1995 B-100
DRUG TUNNELS HAVE BEEN
DISCOVERED.
PEOPLE WILL COME THROUGH THE
COURTS, EITHER MAKING FALSE
CLAIMS, FALSE DOCUMENTS,
OVERSTAY THEIR VISA, OVER THE
FENCE, AROUND THE FENCE, UNDER
THE FENCE, SO IT JUST DOESN'T
STOP.
THE BORDER IS SECURE, BUT YOU
CAN'T HAVE PERFECT SECURITY.
>> Suarez: YOU HEARD CAPTAIN
WILSON MENTION HE JUST NEEDS
MORE PEOPLE.
WHAT DO YOU NEED?
>> DEFINITELY, WE'RE A SMALL
DEPARTMENT WITH A SMALL BUDGET,
WITH MAJOR CHALLENGES ALONG THE
BORDER.
WENEED MORE FUNDING, AND WE'RE
GETTING MORE FUNDING FROM THE
HOMELAND SECURITY, AND WE HAVE
EXTRA PEOPLE IN HOT SPOTS,
PARTNERED WITH BORDER PATROL,
VERY HELPFUL TO PROVIDE MORE
SECURITIES FOR THE RESIDENTS AND
VISITORS OF SANTA CRUZ COUNTY.
>> Suarez: DOES THE
IMMIGRATION BILL CURRENTLY
WORKING THE WAY THROUGH CONGRESS
HOLD ANY PROMISE TO GET YOU
CLOSER TO YOUR GOALS OF SECURING
THE BORDER?
>> NO, I DON'T BELIEVE SO.
EVEN IF THIS IMMIGRATION BILL
COMES-- IS PASSED AND COMES TO
LIGHT, I BELIEVE THAT THEY'RE
STILL GOING TO CONTINUE TO COME
ACROSS THE BORDER IN HUDSPETH
COUNTY, ALL ALONG TEXAS, AND THE
UNITED STATES, AND THE CARTELAND
THEIR ACTIVITY WITH DRUG
SMUGGLING AND THE THINGS THAT
THEY DO, THAT'S NOT GOING TO
STOP THAT.
>> Suarez: AND HOW ABOUT YOU,
SHERIFF ESTRADA, DOES THE
CURRENT PROPOSED IMMIGRATION
BILL NOW IN THE SENATE HOLD ANY
PROMISE AND ANY HELP FOR SANTA
CRUZ COUNTY?
>> I THINK IT WILL.
WE NEED TO BE SURE WE DON'T
REPEAT THE MISTAKES OF THE
1980s WITH THE AMNESTY.
WE NEED TO CONTINUE TO FOCUS AND
BE MINDFUL AND UNDERSTAND IT IS
A BORDER.
IT'S A ROBUST BORDER POOPTS AN
ACTIVE BETTER.
IT'S A DYNAMIC BORDER AND WE'RE
GOING TO CONTINUE TO HAVE THOSE
ISSUES.
THE UNITED STATES CONSUMES OVER
50% OF THE WORLD'S DRUGS, THEN
WE HAVE AN ISSUE WITH
CONSUMPTION HERE.
WE ALSO HAVE POVERTY ALONG THE
WORLD.
THERE WILL BE PEOPLE THAT KEEP
COMING AND THAT'S THE REALITY OF
THE WHOLE THING, IRREGARDLESS OF
IMMIGRATION REFORM WHICH WILL BE
A GOOD STEP FORWARD.
IT'S NOT GOING TO ELIMINATE THE
PROBLEM.
>> Suarez: CAPTAIN WILSON ARE
YOU BEING ASKED TO DO TOO MUCH?
IS THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TAKING
ENOUGH OF THE BURDEN FOR
WATCHING IT SUCH A BIG CHUNK OF
FRONTIER OFF OF YOUR SHOULDER
AND YOUR DEPARTMENT'S SHOULDER?
>> WELL, HUDSPETH COUNTY IS
5,000 SQUARE MILES.
WE HAVE 10 REGULAR DEPUTIES TO
WORK THIS PROBLEM.
THEY USE OVERTIME FROM THE STATE
WE CALL IT PERIOD STAR.
OUR GUYS ARE OUT THERE ALL THE
TIME AFTER THEIR SHIFT.
I THINK THE BORDER PATROL IS
DOING WHAT THEY CAN DO WITH WHAT
THEY'RE ALLOWED TO DO AND THAT
BASICALLY-- I DON'T THINK YOU
COULD PUT ENOUGH GUYS IN THESE
PLACES TO CURB ALL OF THE DRUG
TRAFFICKING AND IMMIGRATION
PROBLEMS.
>> Suarez: SHERIFF TONY
ESTRADA, ROBERT WILSON,
GENTLEMEN, THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
DOLLY PARTON'S LONGTIME PASSION
PROJECT: PASSING ON THE GIFT OF
READING.
THE "NEWSHOUR'S" SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT FOR EDUCATION,
JOHN MERROW, HAS THE STORY.
>> Reporter: MOST OF YOU ARE
PROBABLY FAMILIAR WITH DOLLY
PARTON, BUT TO SOME, PARTON IS
MORE THAN A COUNTRY MUSIC STAR.
>> EVERYWHERE I GO, THE KIDS
CALL ME THE BOOK LADY.
>> Reporter: THE BOOK LADY?
IT'S NOT SURPRISING TO THESE
CHILDREN.
>> I LOVE READING BOOKS.
READING IS MY FAVORITE THING
>> MY FAVORITE WAS "TORTOISE AND
THE HARE."
>> KNOW DAVID AND DAVID GOES
BACK TO SCHOOL.
>> Reporter: WHERE DID THE BOOKS
COME FROM?
>> DOLLY PARTON.
DOLLY PARTON.
>> DOLLY PARTON SEND ME THE
BOOKS.
>> Reporter: IN 1996 DOLLY
PARTON CREATED WHAT SHE CALLS
THE IMAGINATION LIBRARY TO SEND
FREE BOOKS TO HOMES LIKE THIS
ONE.
>> I LIKE THIS ONCE BECAUSE IT
REMINDS ME OF MY GRANDMA.
>> IF SHE HADN'T HAD THOSE
BOOKS, SHE WOULDN'T HAVE HAD
ANYTHING TILL SHE STARTED
KINDERGARTEN.
>> Reporter: MADELYN AND HER
GREAT GRANDMOTHER, MAE LEA
BARKER, LIVE IN PIGEON FORGE,
TENNESSEE.
>> MADDY WAS A VERY QUIET WHEN
SHE WAS LITTLE BECAUSE SHE WAS
JUST MOVED AROUND SO MUCH.
SHE WOULD ALWAYS EITHER HAVE TO
BE WITH HER MOTHER OR HER
FATHER.
AND I THINK THE BOOKS, SHE
CARRIED THEM WITH HER A LOT OF
TIMES.
THAT WAS HERS.
SHE HAD SOMTHING THAT  SHE COULD
CALL HERS.
>> THE LITTLE GIRL HAS A GREAT
IMAGINATION LIKE ME SHE THINKS
OF A MONSTER, IT'S A GREEN
MONSTER RIGHT HERE.
AND THE GRANNY TELLS HER NOT TO
WORRY.
>> WE SEND THESE BOOKS TO THEM
IN THEIR LITTLE NAME, WITH THEIR
NAME ON IT.
THEY LOOK FORWARD TO GO INTO THE
MAILBOX.
THIS IS THEIRS.
THIS IS MINE.
SO I AM GOING TO EITHER LEARN TO
READ IT, OR I'M GOING TO MAKE
SOMEBODY TEACH ME HOW TO READ
IT.
>> Reporter: IT ALL STARTS HERE,
AT BIRTH.
T
OF SEVIER COUNTY, TENNESSEE,
EVERY NEWBORN GETS A FREE BOOK.
>> I HAVE BEEN HERE THREE AND A
HALF YEARS AT LE CONTE IN LABOR
AND DELIVER, AND I HAVE GIVEN
PROBABLY 500 BOOKS TO NEW MOMS.
>> Reporter: FAMILIES IN SEVIER
COUNTY CAN ALSO SIGN UP AT THE
LIBRARY.
EACH CHILD RECEIVES 60 FREE
BOOKS, ONE EVERY MONTH UNTIL AGE
FIVE.
>> IT REALLY, REALLY STARTED OUT
AS A VERY PERSONAL THING FOR ME.
AND IT WAS... ORIGINALLY JUST
MEANT FOR THE FOLKS IN MY HOME
COUNTY BECAUSE OF MY D.AD
THERE WERE NOT BOOKS IN OUR
HOUSE GROWING UP.
AND MY DAD COULD NOT READ NOR
WRITE.
IT WAS VERY CRIPPLING THING FOR
HIM.
MY DADDY WAS SUCH A BRILLIANT
MAN.
>> Reporter: WHAT STARTED IN ONE
RURAL TENNESSEE COUNTY 17 YEARS
AGO HAS SPREAD TO 1,400
COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE UNITED
STATES, ENGLAND AND CANADA.
EACH AFFILIATE RAISES MONEY TO
PAY FOR BOOKS AND MAILING.
$2.00 EACH.
THE IMAGINATION LIBRARY TAKES
CARE OF THE REST, RIGHT HERE
WHERE IT ALL BEGAN.
>> OUR BELIEF WAS THAT,
OFTENTIMES, THE MOST POWERFUL
THINGS ARE THE MOST SIMPLE
THINGS.
>> Reporter: DAVID DOTSON IS
PRESIDENT OF THE DOLLYWOOD
FOUNDATION.
THIS INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION
WITH A $20 MILLION BUDGET
PRODUCES AND DISTRIBUTES ALMOST
700,000 BOOKS A MONTH.
>> WHAT WE ARE ABOUT-- IS THE
EMOTIONAL TIE TO BOOKS, THAT IF
CHILDREN LOVE SOMETHING, THEY
WILL CONTINUE TO DO IT.
SARAH HILLBOTH OF THE GIRLS ARE
EXCELLENT READERS, JUST AHEAD OF
WHERE THEY SHOULD BE IN READING.
I THINK IT MAKES A BIG
DIFFERENCE WHEN YOU HAVE THIS
HUGE LIBRARY OF BOOKS, THERE'S
SO MUCH TO CHOOSE FROM.
I DON'T KNOW THAT WE WOULD BE
ABLE TO AFFORD TO BUY ALL OF
THOSE BOOKS FOR OUR CHILDREN.
AND ITS NICE TO KNOW THAT WE
DON'T HAVE TO MAKE THAT
DECISION.
WE DON'T HAVE TO CHOOSE BETWEEN
A BOOK AND SOMETHING ELSE FOR
THE KIDS.
IT'S JUST-- THAT JUST COMES TO
OUR MAILBOX.
>> Reporter: THE VALUE OF
READING TO CHILDREN IS WELL
DOCUMENTED.
KIDS WHO HAVE BOOKS IN THEIR
HOMES AND ARE READ TO REGULARLY
ARE MORE LIKELY TO SUCCEED IN
SCHOOL.
>> WE CAN DEFINITELY ALWAYS TELL
IF A CHILD'S BEEN READ TO AT
HOME.
THEIR... THEIR VOCABULARIES ARE
SO MUCH LARGER.
>> Reporter: REBECCA SMOCK
TEACHES PRE-K AT PIGEON FORGE
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
>> I THINK IF YOU SEE IF THAT
LITERACY IS A BIG DEAL AT THEIR
HOUSE, THEN THEY'RE GOING TO
REALLY-- THEY JUST KIND OF
EMBRACE THAT MORE WHEN THEY COME
TO SCHOOL.
THEY'RE READY FOR IT.
>> THE OLDER I GET, THE MORE
APPRECIATIVE I SEEM TO BE OF THE
BOOK LADY TITLE.
IT'S-- MAKES ME FEEL MORE LIKE A
LEGITIMATE PERSON, NOT JUST A
SINGER OR AN ENTERTAINER.
BUT IT MAKES ME FEEL LIKE I'VE
DONE SOMETHING GOOD WITH... WITH
MY LIFE AND WITH MY SUCCESS.
>> Reporter: DOLLY PARTON'S
IMAGINATION LIBRARY HAS NOW
GIVEN CHILDREN ALMOST 50 MILLION
FREE BOOKS.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS POINTED TO
NEW ECONOMIC NUMBERS AS EVIDENCE
THE COUNTRY IS RECOVERING AND IT
WAS WIDELY REPORTED PRESIDENT
OBAMA PLANS TO NOMINATE JAMES
COMEY, A FORMER BUSH
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL, TO HEAD
THE F.B.I.
THE STORY OFOKULA HOME'S DEADLY
TORNADOES.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
CHALLENGES OF CARING FOR LOVED
ONES WITH ALZHEIMER'S.
I'MUDY  JWOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.